# BorealOS
This repository builds a minimalistic
[Universal Blue](https://universal-blue.org) image based on
[Aurora](https://getaurora.dev) Developer edition, intended for power users and
developers.

This repository does not build any Bluefin/GNOME-based images.

## Currently available images
The images currently generated by this repository are:

- `borealos`: Standard BorealOS build for most hardware.
- `borealos-nvidia`: BorealOS build with nVidia drivers included.
- `borealos-nvidia-open`: BorealOS build with the open-source nVidia drivers included.

Currently, only the `stable` tag is available for BorealOS. Images are built
weekly on Sundays, after upstream Aurora builds.

### Retired images
The following images are no longer updated, but remain available on ghcr.io for
legacy archival purposes:

- `borealos-nvidia`: BorealOS build with proprietary nVidia drivers included. Last built on Fedora 42.

## Installation
You can locate ISO installer files for BorealOS in
[the Actions tab](https://github.com/hal7df/borealos/actions/workflows/build.yml?query=branch%3Amain).
Just click on the most recent passed build, and select the appropriate artifact
from the page. A landing page with direct installer links may be added in the
future.

### Rebasing from another Universal Blue image
Run the following steps, then reboot:

```sh
# Fetch the BorealOS public signing key
sudo mkdir -p /etc/pki/containers
sudo curl -Lo /etc/pki/containers/borealos.pub https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hal7df/borealos/refs/heads/main/cosign.pub

# Add a signature policy for BorealOS (you only need to run the command for the image you plan to rebase to)
sudo podman image trust -t sigstoreSigned -f /etc/pki/containers/borealos.pub ghcr.io/hal7df/borealos
sudo podman image trust -t sigstoreSigned -f /etc/pki/containers/borealos.pub ghcr.io/hal7df/borealos-nvidia
sudo podman image trust -t sigstoreSigned -f /etc/pki/containers/borealos.pub ghcr.io/hal7df/borealos-nvidia-open

# for most hardware
sudo bootc switch ghcr.io/hal7df/borealos:stable --enforce-container-sigpolicy

# for nvidia drivers
sudo bootc switch ghcr.io/hal7df/borealos-nvidia:stable --enforce-container-sigpolicy
```

## Changes from the base image
This build mostly removes packages from the base image to slim it down, although
a small number of useful packages have been added.

### Added
- `v4l-utils`: Commandline utilities for managing webcams and video capture
  devices.
- `solaar-udev`: udev rules to make the Solaar Flatpak work
- `cronie`: cron implementation

### Removed
Note that, unlike standard ublue-os images, BorealOS (by design) does not
automatically modify your system flatpak installation after the initial OS
install. If you would like to install BorealOS' standard flatpaks, run
`ujust install-system-flatpaks` from a terminal.

Most of these packages can be added after installing or rebasing to BorealOS via
flatpak, brew, or manually installing them to ~/.local/bin/.

- Docker: podman is also provided in the base image and is more heavily used
  by other utilities. Removed in the interest of focusing on a single container
  runtime and keeping space down.
- Incus/LXC: See Docker.
- Visual Studio Code: This is more of a personal preference, I prefer vim/nvim
  for code editing.
- Ptyxis: Also more of a personal preference, I prefer working via Konsole and
  using container tooling directly.
- DevPod: space concerns
- Solaar: The udev rules have been left intact, so this can be reinstalled via
  Flatpak if needed.
- Thunderbird: space concerns
- Podman Desktop: space concerns
- Tailscale/KTailctl: I currently have no use for tailscale.
- Flatseal: KDE has its own Flatpak permissions manager, available in System
  Settings under Security & Privacy > Application Permissions > Flatpak Permissions.
- Mission Center: Removed in favor of KDE's System Monitor application.
- PikaBackup and DejaDup: two GNOME-based backup tools; I currently use borg
  (which remains in the image).
- Warehouse: Most of Warehouse's functions are provided via Discover.
- Some KDE apps (Haruna, KClock, Kontact, KWeather): removed for a more
  minimal base install.
- InputLeap: removed for a more minimal base install
- Font managing software: removed for a more minimal base install
- OpenRazer: removed for a more minimal base install
- monaspace fonts: space concerns
- RamaLama: LLM development is not an objective for this image

## Credits

- [Universal Blue image template](https://github.com/ublue-os/image-template)
- [Aurora build process](https://github.com/ublue-os/aurora)
- [m2os](https://github.com/m2giles/m2os)
